Create Blog “setting-up-hierarchical-namespaces-in-kubernetes-in-hpe-greenlake-for-private-cloud-enterprise” (#2664)
hpe-dev-incubator/hpe-dev-portal: content/blog/setting-up-hierarchical-namespaces-in-kubernetes-in-hpe-greenlake-for-private-cloud-enterprise.md

---
title: Setting up hierarchical namespaces in Kubernetes in HPE GreenLake for
  Private Cloud Enterprise
date: 2024-06-13T08:18:47.600Z
author: Guoping Jia
authorimage: /img/guoping.png
disable: false
tags:
  - HPE GreenLake for Private Cloud Enterprise
  - Kubernetes
  - Namespaces
---
<style> li { font-size: 27px; line-height: 33px; max-width: none; } </style>

> This blog post shows the process to set up the hierarchical namespaces in Kubernetes (K8s) in HPE GreenLake for Private Cloud Enterprise. It demonstrates how easy to manage namespace relationships, propagate configurations and resources, and enforce access control policies using the hierarchical namespace in K8s for the cluster administrators. 

Reviewer: This blog post _demonstrates_ the process... Cloud Enterprise. _It shows how easy it is to manage_ ... for the cluster administrators.

### Overview

> [HPE GreenLake for Private Cloud Enterprise: Containers](https://www.hpe.com/us/en/greenlake/containers.html), one of the HPE GreenLake cloud services available on the HPE GreenLake for Private Cloud Enterprise, allows customers to create a K8s cluster and deploy containerized applications to the cluster. It provides an enterprise-grade container management service using open source K8s.  

Reviewer: ..._allow_ customers to create... It provides (delete _an_) enterprise-grade...

### Prerequisites

> Before starting, make sure you have the following:

Reviewer: Can we just say **Prerequisites** ? The first sentence 'before starting...' is not required.

> * A K8s cluster, being provisioned in HPE GreenLake for Private Cloud Enterprise

Reviewer: delete _being_ before provisioned in the first bullet.

### Prerequisites

Before starting, make sure you have the following:

* A K8s cluster being provisioned, using [HPE GreenLake Terraform provider](https://developer.hpe.com/blog/kubernetes-clusters-as-code-part1/) for example, in HPE GreenLake for Private Cloud Enterprise
* The *kubectl* CLI tool, together with the kubeconfig file for accessing the K8s cluster
* [cURL](https://curl.se/) CLI tool

### Set up hierarchical namespaces

K8s does not come with hierarchical namespace support by default. There are  two components, the *HNC manager* and the optional kubectl plugin *kubectl-hns*, need to install in order to support hierarchical namespaces in K8s. 

#### Install the HNC manager

The HNC manager can be installed within the control plane of the K8s cluster by typing the following commands:

```shell
$ HNC_VERSION=v1.1.0

> $ kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/multi-tenancy/releases/download/hnc-$HNC_VERSION/hnc-manager.yaml

Author: Sorry, Denis !

Since HNC v0.9.0, it's been moved to the new repo. I installed the latest v1.1.0 in my client, however, I was still referrring to the old HNC installation README. 

The following should be the correct HNC installation steps:

$ HNC_VERSION=v1.1.0
$ HNC_VARIANT=default

$ kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/hierarchical-namespaces/releases/download/${HNC_VERSION}/${HNC_VARIANT}.yaml

team-vmaas-quota   4m10s   cpu: 0/4, memory: 0/20Gi, persistentvolumeclaims: 0/10, pods: 0/10, requests.storage: 0/20Gi, services.nodeports: 0/2

$ kubectl get resourcequota -n vmaas-iac
NAME              AGE   REQUEST                                                                                                                 LIMIT
team-vmaas-quota   75s   cpu: 0/4, memory: 0/20Gi, persistentvolumeclaims: 0/10, pods: 0/10, requests.storage: 0/20Gi, services.nodeports: 0/2

$ kubectl get resourcequota -n vmaas-devops
NAME              AGE   REQUEST                                                                                                                 LIMIT
team-vmaas-quota   79s   cpu: 0/4, memory: 0/20Gi, persistentvolumeclaims: 0/10, pods: 0/10, requests.storage: 0/20Gi, services.nodeports: 0/2

```

#### Cascade secrets

This section shows the process to configure some sensitive data to be propagated through the namespace hierarchy. It uses the K8s [Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) API object. 

> First type below command to update the HNC configuration to propagate the K8s *Secret* resouces:

Reviewer 2: Typo: resouces: --> resources:

$ kubectl get rolebindings -n team-vmaas
NAME                            ROLE                                 AGE
...
pce-admins                      Role/pce-admin                       63s
vmaas-sres                      Role/vmaas-sre                       43s

$ kubectl get role -n vmaas-devops
NAME                            CREATED AT
...
pce-admin                       2024-08-03T14:08:45Z
vmaas-sre                       2024-07-29T12:10:59Z

$ kubectl get rolebindings -n vmaas-devops
NAME                            ROLE                                 AGE
pce-admins                      Role/pce-admin                       63s
vmaas-sres                      Role/vmaas-sre                       43s

$ kubectl get role -n vmaas-iac
NAME                            CREATED AT
...
pce-admin                       2024-06-27T12:45:51Z
vmaas-sre                       2024-06-27T12:45:52Z

$ k get rolebindings -n vmaas-iac
NAME                            ROLE                                 AGE
...
pce-admins                      Role/pce-admin                       65s
vmaas-sres                      Role/vmaas-sre                       45s

```

#### Cascade resource quotas

> K8s provides [ResourceQuota](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/policy/resource-quotas/) API object that allows the cluster administrators to define resource quotas and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
K8s provides [ResourceQuota](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/policy/resource-quotas/) an API object that allows the cluster administrators to define resource quotas and 

```

> limit ranges per namespace. Resource quota tracks aggregate usage of resources in the namespace and allow cluster operators to define hard resource usage limits that a namespace may consume. A limit range defines minimum and maximum constraints on the amount of resources a single entity can consume in a namespace. It's useful to make sure resource usage is staying with certain bounds. This section shows the process to set up resource quotas using *ResourceQuota*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
limits ranges per namespace. Resource quota tracks aggregate usage of resources in the namespace and allow cluster operators to define hard resource usage limits that a namespace may consume. A limit range defines minimum and maximum constraints on the amount of resources a single entity can consume in a namespace. It's useful to make sure resource usage is staying with certain bounds. This section shows the process to set up resource quotas using *ResourceQuota*.
```

> Type below commands to apply two resource quotas, *'team-vmaas-quota'* & *'team-caas-quota'*, to the team namespaces *team-vmaas* and *team-caas*, respectively:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Type the following commands to apply two resource quotas, *'team-vmaas-quota'* & *'team-caas-quota'*, to the team namespaces *team-vmaas* and *team-caas*, respectively:
```

```shell
$ kubectl get resourcequota -n team-caas
NAME               AGE   REQUEST                                                                                                                 LIMIT
team-caas-quota   67s   cpu: 0/8, memory: 0/60Gi, persistentvolumeclaims: 0/30, pods: 0/30, requests.storage: 0/60Gi, services.nodeports: 0/6

$ kubectl get resourcequota -n team-vmaas
NAME              AGE   REQUEST                                                                                                                 LIMIT
team-vmaas-quota   74s   cpu: 0/4, memory: 0/20Gi, persistentvolumeclaims: 0/10, pods: 0/10, requests.storage: 0/20Gi, services.nodeports: 0/2

$ kubectl get resourcequota -n vmaas-iac
No resources found in vmaas-iac namespace.

$ kubectl get resourcequota -n caas-iac
No resources found in caas-iac namespace.

$ kubectl get resourcequota -n caas-devops
No resources found in caas-devops namespace.

$ kubectl get resourcequota -n vmaas-devops
No resources found in vmaas-devops namespace.

```

> The lack of propagation of resource quotas to project namespaces is due to the default HNC configuration. The HNC configuration by default is configured to only propagate RBAC objects, specifically, *roles* and *rolebindings*. You have to update the HNC configuration to propagate other K8s resources. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The lack of propagation of resource quotas to project namespaces is due to the default HNC configuration. The HNC configuration propagates RBAC objects, specifically, *roles* and *rolebindings*, by default. You have to update the HNC configuration to propagate other K8s resources. 
```

```shell

$ kubectl hns config describe
Synchronized resources:
* Propagating: rolebindings (rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1)
* Propagating: roles (rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1)

Conditions:

```

Type the following command to update the HNC configuration to propagate the K8s *ResourceQuota* resources:

```shell

$ kubectl hns config set-resource resourcequotas --mode Propagate

$ kubectl hns config describe
Synchronized resources:
* Propagating: resourcequotas (/v1)
* Propagating: rolebindings (rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1)
* Propagating: roles (rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1)

Conditions:

```

> If you check again the resouce quotas, you will see the quota resources are propagated to all projects under each team namespace: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you check the resource quotas again, you can notice the quota resources propagated to all projects under each team namespace: 
```

team-caas-quota   60s   cpu: 0/8, memory: 0/60Gi, persistentvolumeclaims: 0/30, pods: 0/30, requests.storage: 0/60Gi, services.nodeports: 0/6

$ kubectl get resourcequota -n team-vmaas
NAME              AGE     REQUEST                                                                                                                 LIMIT
team-vmaas-quota   4m10s   cpu: 0/4, memory: 0/20Gi, persistentvolumeclaims: 0/10, pods: 0/10, requests.storage: 0/20Gi, services.nodeports: 0/2

$ kubectl get resourcequota -n vmaas-iac
NAME              AGE   REQUEST                                                                                                                 LIMIT
team-vmaas-quota   75s   cpu: 0/4, memory: 0/20Gi, persistentvolumeclaims: 0/10, pods: 0/10, requests.storage: 0/20Gi, services.nodeports: 0/2

$ kubectl get resourcequota -n vmaas-devops
NAME              AGE   REQUEST                                                                                                                 LIMIT
team-vmaas-quota   79s   cpu: 0/4, memory: 0/20Gi, persistentvolumeclaims: 0/10, pods: 0/10, requests.storage: 0/20Gi, services.nodeports: 0/2

```

#### Cascade secrets

> This section shows the process to configure some sensitive data to be propagated through the namespace hierarchy. It uses the K8s [Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) API object. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section demonstrates the process to configure sensitive data to be propagated through the namespace hierarchy. It uses the K8s [Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) API object. 
```

> First type below command to update the HNC configuration to propagate the K8s *Secret* resources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, type the following command to update the HNC configuration to propagate the K8s *Secret* resources:
```

```shell
$ kubectl hns config set-resource secrets --mode Propagate

$ kubectl hns config describe
Synchronized resources:
* Propagating: resourcequotas (/v1)
* Propagating: secrets (/v1)
* Propagating: rolebindings (rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1)
* Propagating: roles (rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1)

Conditions:

```

Then execute the following commands to generate two K8s secrets of the *docker-registry* type, *'team-caas-regcrd'* & *'team-vmaas-regcrd'*, within the *team-caas* and *team-vmaas* namespaces, respectively. These secrets can be used by the corresponding teams and their projects, enabling them to authenticate against their respective team Docker registries and retrieve private images necessary for the deployment of their applications.

```shell
 $ kubectl -n team-caas create secret generic team-caas-regcrd --from-file=.dockerconfigjson=/home/guoping/.docker/config-team-caas.json --type=kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson
secret/team-caas-regcrd created

$ kubectl -n team-vmaas create secret generic team-vmaas-regcrd --from-file=.dockerconfigjson=/home/guoping/.docker/config-team-vmaas.json --type=kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson
secret/team-vmaas-regcrd created

```

> Besides being created within the team namespaces, these secrets are also automatically propagated to every project within each team namespace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The secrets created within the team namespaces are automatically propagated to every project within each team namespace:
```

team-caas-regcrd   kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson   1      99s

$ kubectl get secret -n caas-iac team-caas-regcrd
NAME               TYPE                             DATA   AGE
team-caas-regcrd   kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson   1      104s

$ kubectl get secret -n team-vmaas team-vmaas-regcrd
NAME                TYPE                             DATA   AGE
team-vmaas-regcrd   kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson   1      40s

$ kubectl get secret -n vmaas-devops team-vmaas-regcrd
NAME                TYPE                             DATA   AGE
team-vmaas-regcrd   kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson   1      59s

$ kubectl get secret -n vmaas-iac team-vmaas-regcrd
NAME                TYPE                             DATA   AGE
team-vmaas-regcrd   kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson   1      65s

```

### Conclusion

This blog post provides a detailed guide on how to set up hierarchical namespaces in K8s in the HPE GreenLake for Private Cloud Enterprise. It delves into the capabilities of hierarchical namespaces and their impact on managing K8s namespaces. The support of hierarchical namespaces simplifies K8s management and addresses the complexities of administering large-scale namespaces. 

> Please keep coming back to the [HPE Developer Community blog](https://developer.hpe.com/blog/) to learn more about HPE GreenLake for Private Cloud Enterprise and get more ideas on how you can use it in your everyday operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep visiting the [HPE Developer Community blog](https://developer.hpe.com/blog/) to learn more about HPE GreenLake for Private Cloud Enterprise and get more ideas on how you can use it in your everyday operations.
```
